Source:From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Pokhara Valley
Pokhara Valley is the second-largest valley in the hilly region of Nepal. It lies in the western part of Nepal. The cities of Pokhara and Lekhnath are in the valley. It is located in Gandaki zone, 203 kilometres (126 mi) west of Kathmandu Valley.[1] The city of Pokhara is one of the major cities of Nepal and it, like Kathmandu Valley, is extremely vulnerable to earthquakes due to its clay soil and liquefaction potential.

Tourism
Pokhara is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Nepal. Many tourists visit Pokhara Valley to see the Himalayan range and lakes. Pokhara is also famous for boating, trekking, rafting and extreme sports like rafting, canoeing and bungee jumping. According to the Nepal Tourism Board, the number of international tourists to Pokhara in 2009 was 203,527, and the same year 509,956 international tourists visited Nepal and the number is increasing every year.[2]

Lakes
Among many lakes in Pokhara Valley, Phewa Lake is the largest. Phewa Lake is also the second largest lake of Nepal and it includes the parts of Pokhara Valley, Sarangkot, and Kaskikot. The reflection of Mount Macchapucchre (Fishtail) can be seen on this lake. Many tourists come to enjoy boating and fishing on Phewa lake. Another main attraction of Phewa Lake is the two-storied temple of Barahi Bhagwati Temple, situated on the middle of the lake, like an island.[3] In addition to Phewa Lake, Begnas lake is another famous lake in Pokhara Valley,  being the second largest lake in the Valley. Begnas Lake is situated at an elevation of 650 m and it covers 3 km2.[4]

Extreme sports
Extreme sports also play a role in tourism. Recently, in Pokhara, the longest and fastest zip line in the world was built, which is 1850 m (6070 ft) long and it begins at the top of the Sarangkot hill and it ends near Yamdi river. The zip line can reach a maximum speed of 140 km/h (100 mph) and it has a vertical drop of almost 2000 feet. Riders can see views of 23000-foot Machhapuchhre mountain, Annapurna range and Seti river.[5] Paragliding, which is also done from Sarangkot, is another extreme sport available in Pokhara Valley.[6]

